SEO OVERVIEW

A disclaimer before diving in: "There is no 'secret sauce' to ranking in search results" (https://moz.com/beginners-guide-to-seo/on-page-seo). Providing value is the best way to climb in search results. That said, I've learned that web design can do quite a bit to make a site's architecture search-friendly. Doing so enables search engines to see the priorities and quality of the site. Neglecting this aspect of web design amounts to shooting yourself in the foot.

All of this is content is new to me, so even simple aspects are illuminating. For instance, prioritizing information in <h1> tags and successively working your way down (having only one <h1> tag per page) is an easy but important step. I had not thought to create ghost content or pages, but I can understand the temptation to create invisible content that says things like "Seattle Seahawks" in an architecture site, just to try to trick the search engines into thinking that the site is more interesting than it actually is. I've also learned that the title and description tags should be different for each page and should not duplicate information (https://www.searchenginewatch.com/2016/05/26/how-to-write-meta-descriptions-for-seo-with-good-and-bad-examples/#checklist). Once again, there's an intuitive logic to that, but I was previously unaware of it and can easily imagine shortcutting that part of the process. It seems that convention taught that the ideal length for description was 150-165 characters, though in some cases now longer descriptions make sense (https://www.searchenginewatch.com/2018/04/04/a-quick-and-easy-guide-to-meta-tags-in-seo/).

SEO PROPOSAL

One quirk of my project is that I named the imaginary design firm "design firm." This has some interesting complications for SEO. On the positive side, anyone searching for a design firm would be led naturally to an entity called "design firm." This means that <h1> tags can say "design firm" and in a way its both a description and a specific name. On the negative side, it makes it tricky to avoid duplicate content in tags. For instance, a description could easily turn into a version of "design firm- a design firm that is a firm which designs designs." An architecture site is not likely to feature links to too many other sites because it wouldn't want to direct traffic away from itself. Similarly, it would rely quite a bit on visuals to create its effect. These factors mean that good image alts would play a large role, not just for accessibility reasons but for search engines. A description that uses many vivid terms (e.g. "sleek," "minimalist," "harmonious") would help search engines find the site based on the aesthetic that it is selling. In this particular case, I haven't located the firm anywhere but it would be crucial to mention the firm's town or city prominently. Most people looking for an architect would be thinking local so that they could meet with the design team and go over plans. 
